Philippians chapter 2 and verse 3,
with humility, consider others superior to you.
These words penned by the Apostle Paul
really reflect a message that Jesus tried again and again
to get across to his apostles.
In fact, let's look at one account in Mark chapter 10,
verse 42 and 43.
Mark chapter 10, verses 42.
It says, but Jesus called them to him and said to them,
you know that those who appear to be ruling the nations
lorded over them, and their great ones
wheeled authority over them.
This must not be the way among you,
but whoever wants to be great among you
must be your minister.
And with humility, consider others superior to you.
Now, why was Jesus so concerned
that his disciples learned this lesson of humility?
Because Jesus knew that lack of humility is contrary
to Jehovah's personality.
If we don't have humility, Jehovah's Holy Spirit
cannot flow.
Psalm 138, in verse 1, says that Jehovah only knows
the haughty from a distance.
But Jesus also knew that lack of humility
disrupts the peace of God's people.
And without peace, Jehovah's Spirit cannot flow either.
We may think of first Corinthians 14 and 33.
This is Jehovah is a God of peace.
Now, it's adventurous as we look at the accounts
that Jesus recognized that when his disciples
lost their peace, when they were arguing,
when they were bickering among themselves,
it was because they were not applying the principle
in today's text.
Let's look at another account.
If you look back a page to Mark chapter nine
in verse 33, it says, and they came into cavernium.
Now, when he was inside the house,
he put the questions to them,
what were you arguing about on the road?
What were you arguing about?
Well, you look at verse 35, they were quiet
because they were arguing about who was greater.
Now, you think about this.
These were grown men.
Do you really think they were walking down the road
saying, well, I'm greater than you are?
No, I'm the greatest there is, maybe, but maybe not.
These were grown mature men.
But Jesus, in his wisdom of human nature,
being able to read hearts knew what they were arguing
about, the root of it, the topic didn't matter.
The real issue was that it was a lack of humility.
And notice what he says in verse 35.
It says, so we said, now call the 12 and said to them,
if anyone wants to be first,
he must be last of all and minister of all.
Have humility.
Consider others superior to you.
At Luke 9, verse 46 and 47, when there was a dispute,
that account says, Jesus, knowing the reasoning
of their hearts, counseled them on humility.
He saw right through the argument, right through the issue,
and isolated the real problem, lack of humility.
Now, when you think about it, isn't it true
that that's usually what is behind petty arguments,
disputes, disagreements we may have?
See, if Jesus was among us, would he say,
what were you arguing about in the office?
What were you arguing about in the room?
See, whether it's between marriage mates,
those of us working together here at Bethel,
bodies of elders, publishers in the congregation,
what's the lesson for us?
Well, the lesson is that when there seems
to be a lack of peace, when there seems to be tension
or arguing, the first person we should look at is ourselves.
Am I really arguing over who is greater?
Now, an account that always comes to mind
when I think about this is that of Hagar,
Sarah's Egyptian made servant.
If you turn back to Genesis chapter 16
and we're familiar with this account, Sarah,
or Sarah at the time, was not able to become pregnant,
Hagar became pregnant, and as soon as Hagar became pregnant,
peace went out of the family, there was tension,
there was bickering, there was arguing,
things escalated to the point of Sarah
humiliating Hagar and chasing her away into the wilderness.
Now, we may first read this and go, poor Hagar,
this young pregnant girl, Sarah is just jealous,
Sarah is got the problem, was at the case.
Well, we don't have all the facts of the matter,
but it is adventurous to know what Jehovah through his angel
told Hagar when he met up with her in the wilderness.
Look at Genesis chapter 16 and verse 9.
It says, Jehovah's angel then said to her,
return to your mistress and humble yourself under her hand.
Go back and be humble and everything will be okay.
Now, do you notice what may have been the obstacle to peace?
Back in verse 4, chapter 16 verse 4,
it says that Hagar began to despise her mistress
when she Hagar found out that she was pregnant.
A Bianton's translation says that Hagar began to look down
on her mistress, Hagar began to feel that she was superior.
And what happened?
Yes, Hagar chased her away.
Hagar reacted, and perhaps Sarah reacted,
perhaps Sarah did not react well either.
But do you notice who Jehovah held responsible
for the lack of peace in the family?
Hagar, you go back and humble yourself under her hand.
And see, that's a good account that reminds us
as sometimes the real underlying challenge to peace
may be me.
See, peace may have gone away
because how people are reacting to me,
perhaps I'm telegraphing that I think my ways,
my ideas, my way of doing things are superior to others.
Now, why is this so important that we fight this imperfect
tendency that we all have toward pride,
toward lacking humility, fearlings of superiority?
Well, not only is it distasteful to Jehovah,
but as we've talked about, lack of humility
disrupts the peace of God's people.
And without peace, Jehovah's spirit cannot flow.
And without Jehovah's spirit, we're on our own.
And if we're on our own, we're going to fail.
There's a powerful quote in the Kingdom Rules book
on page 120 in paragraph 9.
In fact, we have a written on one of the whiteboards
in our office just to remind us of this point.
It says this.
It says, any structure of order that does not have peace
as its foundation will sooner or later collapse.
In contrast, Godly peace promotes the kind of order
that lasts.
Powerful point, isn't that?
Any structure of order that does not
have peace as its foundation will sooner or later collapse.
And see, that applies in the congregation
and a family in our department at Bethel on a construction site
wherever we are.
And I know in our work, no matter how challenging,
how complicated things get, no matter what we're dealing with,
the only time we really start to worry
is when we find that peace has gone away.
Maybe this tension between ones in the office,
and maybe this tension between our department
and another department, that's when we worry.
And we start working quickly to see what can we do
to restore peace.
Because when peace is present, no matter how challenging,
how hard the topic is, it's just work.
And that's why we're here.
We love to work.
But when peace is disturbed, that's when we're in trouble.
Now, how important is it to Jehovah
that we consider other superior to us?
How important is it to Jehovah that we maintain peace?
How does he feel about that?
Let's look at description in Psalm 35 and verse 27.
Psalm 35 and verse 27.
It says, but let those who take pleasure
in my righteousness shall joyfully.
May they constantly say, may Jehovah be magnified
who takes pleasure in the peace of his servant?
Jehovah takes pleasure in the peace of his servant.
He takes pleasure when he sees us working together
in unity, in peace, and that takes humility.
So may we work hard to always apply
the principle in today's text.
Consider others superior to us.
May we work hard to maintain the peace of all of us,
all that around us.
And may Jehovah never have to say of us,
what were you arguing about on the road?